{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Times New Roman;}{\f1 Arial;}}
\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134
\fs22
\pard\qc\b AI-BASED ACCIDENT ANALYTICS AND HOTSPOT FORECASTING FOR JURISDICTION-LEVEL ROAD SAFETY PLANNING\b0\par
\pard\qc <YOUR NAME>, Department of Civil Engineering, <COLLEGE NAME>, <CITY>, India\par
\pard\qc Email: <YOUR EMAIL>\par
\pard\sb180\sa120\b Abstract\.\b0\par
\pard Road traffic safety planning needs both historical analysis and predictive intelligence. This project presents a civil-engineering oriented AI platform for accident data cleaning, jurisdiction-level analytics, severity prediction, and hotspot forecasting. The system resolves mixed-format records, decodes coded attributes, and supports interactive filtering for planners. Three models were benchmarked for severity classification: Random Forest, XGBoost, and CatBoost. For hotspot planning, a five-year recursive monthly forecast was implemented with calendar-aligned lag features and seasonality. A comparative toggle between Historical Month Ranking and Predicted Month Ranking improves interpretability for decision-makers.\par
\pard\sb120\b Index Terms\-\b0 Road Safety, Accident Analytics, Severity Prediction, Hotspot Forecasting, Machine Learning, Civil Engineering.\par

\pard\sb180\b I. INTRODUCTION\b0\par
\pard Road traffic accidents remain a critical civil infrastructure and transportation safety issue. This work develops an AI-based system for jurisdiction-level accident analytics and predictive planning.\par

\pard\sb180\b II. PROBLEM STATEMENT\b0\par
\pard Key issues in source records include mixed date formats, mixed time formats, category inconsistencies, and coded fields requiring decoding. These affect model reliability and interpretation.\par

\pard\sb180\b III. OBJECTIVES\b0\par
\pard 1. Build an end-to-end accident analytics and prediction platform.\par
\pard 2. Standardize and clean mixed-format accident records.\par
\pard 3. Train and compare severity prediction models.\par
\pard 4. Forecast hotspot risk for 5 years.\par
\pard 5. Provide historical vs predicted hotspot comparison.\par

\pard\sb180\b IV. DATA DESCRIPTION AND PREPROCESSING\b0\par
\pard The dataset includes jurisdiction, date/time, day/night, collision details, vehicle details, severity counts, infrastructure indicators, and coordinates. Cleaning includes header normalization, mixed date/time parsing, D/N normalization, code decoding, and missing-value handling.\par

\pard\sb180\b V. METHODOLOGY\b0\par
\pard\b A. Severity Prediction\par\b0
\pard Models: RandomForest, XGBoost, CatBoost with encoded categorical features and cross-validation.\par
\pard\b B. Hotspot Forecasting\par\b0
\pard Monthly jurisdiction counts are created on a continuous calendar timeline, then forecast recursively for 60 months using lag and seasonality features.\par

\pard\sb180\b VI. SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION\b0\par
\pard The system is implemented in Python using Streamlit, pandas, scikit-learn, xgboost, catboost, and plotly.\par

\pard\sb180\b VII. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION\b0\par
\pard Historical month ranking reflects actual observations, while predicted ranking reflects learned trend behavior across years.\par

\pard\sb180\b VIII. LIMITATIONS\b0\par
\pard 1. No exogenous traffic/weather covariates yet.\par
\pard 2. Aggregation may hide micro blackspots.\par
\pard 3. Forecast uncertainty bounds not shown in UI.\par

\pard\sb180\b IX. CONCLUSION\b0\par
\pard The platform supports data-driven safety planning through cleaned analytics, severity prediction, and hotspot forecasting.\par

\pard\sb180\b X. FUTURE WORK\b0\par
\pard Add explainability, external covariates, uncertainty intervals, GIS enrichment, and persistent deployment backend.\par

\pard\sb180\b REFERENCES\b0\par
\pard [1] World Health Organization, \i Global Status Report on Road Safety\i0 , latest ed.\par
\pard [2] Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, Government of India, \i Road Accidents in India\i0 , latest annual report.\par
\pard [3] T. Chen and C. Guestrin, ``XGBoost: A Scalable Tree Boosting System,'' in \i Proc. KDD\i0 , 2016.\par
\pard [4] L. Breiman, ``Random Forests,'' \i Machine Learning\i0 , vol. 45, no. 1, pp. 5-32, 2001.\par
\pard [5] Scikit-learn Documentation. Online: https://scikit-learn.org\par
\pard [6] Streamlit Documentation. Online: https://docs.streamlit.io\par

\pard\sb180\b FIGURE PLACEHOLDERS\b0\par
\pard Fig. 1. Overall system architecture.\par
\pard Fig. 2. Data manager page.\par
\pard Fig. 3. Dashboard with filters.\par
\pard Fig. 4. Month-wise severity trend.\par
\pard Fig. 5. Severity distribution.\par
\pard Fig. 6. Model comparison chart.\par
\pard Fig. 7. Severity prediction output.\par
\pard Fig. 8. Hotspot forecast (Predicted mode).\par
\pard Fig. 9. Hotspot ranking (Historical mode).\par
\pard Fig. 10. Jurisdiction trend comparison.\par

\pard\sb180\b TABLE PLACEHOLDERS\b0\par
\pard TABLE I. Input Variables Used in the Study\par
\pard TABLE II. Data Cleaning Rules\par
\pard TABLE III. Severity Model Comparison\par
\pard TABLE IV. Historical vs Predicted Hotspot Snapshot\par
}
